The Jungle Book by Rudyard Kipling Copyright Blackcat Publishing
Chapter 1 Mughli's Family One evening in the hills of South India,
Father Wolf wakes up. Mother Wolf is near him with four little cubs.
It's time to look for food. Says Father Wolf. He gets up and leaves the cave.
There is a big moon in the sky. Hello. Says a voice.
It is the jackal, Tabakwe. He eats everything, even old clothes from the villages.
The wolves do not like him and are afraid of him. What do you want, Tabakwe?
asks Father Wolf. The tiger, Sheer Khan, is coming here to look for food.
Says Tabakwe. What?
Says Father Wolf surprised. He can't do that. He must tell us first because that's the law of
the jungle. Sheer Khan has a bad leg and he can't run fast. Says Mother Wolf.
He only kills bulls and the people of the village are angry with him. That's why he's coming here.
He wants to start hunting in a new place.
Listen. Says Tabakwe. You can hear him in the woods.
Father Wolf listens and says. What a stupid animal. He's making a lot of noise and all the animals
are going to run away and hide. How can I look for food now?
Shh. Says Mother Wolf. It's the noise of a man.
A man? Cries Father Wolf. The law of the jungle says that animals must not eat man
because then a lot of men with guns come to the jungle and all of the animals are in danger.
Listen. Says Mother Wolf. Something's coming to the cave.
Father Wolf sees a baby standing under a tree. The baby looks at Father Wolf and laughs.
Is that a man cub? asks Mother Wolf. Bring it here. I want to look at it.
The baby is small and has no clothes. Father Wolf gently carries it to Mother Wolf.
It starts drinking her milk with the other cubs. Mother Wolf is happy and says.
Look. He's drinking my milk with the cubs. He's not afraid.
It is suddenly dark in the cave because Sheer Khan puts his big head inside.
We're pleased to see you, Sheer Khan. Says Father Wolf. But his eyes are angry.
I know. There's a man cub here. Says Sheer Khan.
It's mine. You must give it to me. Sheer Khan's very big so he can't come into the cave.
thinks Father Wolf. The man cub is ours. Says Father Wolf.
The leader of the pack's going to decide what to do with the cub. We listen to him,
and not to a tiger. The man cub is mine.
cries Sheer Khan angrily. He starts roaring.
No! cries Mother Wolf. The man cub is mine and you can't kill him. He's going to live with us.
He's my son. Now go away. Sheer Khan walks around the cave slowly and looks at the man cub.
No. I'm Sheer Khan. And the cub is mine.
You're wrong, says Mother Wolf. The man cub is ours. He's going to live with us. He's my son.
Now go away, Sheer Khan. Father Wolf is surprised, but he knows Mother Wolf is brave and strong.
Sheer Khan goes away. He knows he cannot fight Mother Wolf in the cave.
One day, I'm going to have that cub. He cries. After Sheer Khan leaves, Father Wolf says,
Do you really want to keep him? Yes, I do, says Mother Wolf.
He isn't afraid of us, and he's happy here. I want to call him Mowgli the Frog.
Mowgli, says Father Wolf. Yes, I like the name Mowgli. We must show Mowgli to the pack.
The law of the jungle says that the pack must see all of the wolf cubs when they can walk,
and look at them carefully.
Listening activity.
My name is Baloo. I'm a big bear, and I live in the jungle with baguera and the walms.
I teach the cubs in the wolf pack about the law of the jungle. I know all the animals in the
jungle. I am their friend, and I can speak their language. They know I don't hunt. I only eat
nuts and honey. I'm baguera. I'm a black panther. I'm very strong.
All the other animals say, I'm clever. They often ask me about things and ask me to help them.
I'm going to help Baloo teach Mowgli, the man cub. I know about men, and I know they are clever too.
I hope I can teach him everything he needs to know to live in the jungle. It's a difficult place to live.
Chapter 2. Council Rock.
When the four wolf cubs can walk, father wolf takes them and Mowgli to council rock.
Mother wolf goes too. Hundreds of wolves in the wolf pack meet at council rock once a month
when the moon is full. Akela is the leader of the pack and he sits on a big rock.
He is a grey wolf and he is very brave. Each new wolf cub stands in front of him and he says,
look carefully wolves. Look carefully. At last, father wolf pushes Mowgli in front of Akela and the other wolves.
This is Mowgli the frog. Says father wolf. Mowgli just laughs.
Suddenly, the wolves here shear Khan's voice behind the trees.
The man cub is mine. Give him to me. He cries. Akela does not move but says,
look carefully. Who speaks for this man cub? Two voices must speak for him,
but not his father and mother. A big sleepy brown bear appears in front of Akela.
Baloo says Akela surprised. Baloo teaches the law of the jungle to the wolf cubs
and he speaks at the meetings of the council. Everyone likes him because he eats only nuts and
honey. He doesn't hunt. I can speak for the man cub. Says Baloo with his low voice.
I can teach him to run with the pack. Very well. Says Akela. Another animal silently jumps down
into the circle of wolves. It is Bagira the panther. He is black, brave and strong.
He is also very clever. Akela, can I speak? asks Bagira softly.
Yes, you can. Says Akela. The law of the jungle says it's possible to buy
the life of a cub. Says Bagira. It's bad to kill a man cub because he can't hurt you.
Let him live and I can give you a fat bull to eat. Good, good. Say the young wolves.
They are always hungry and want to eat the fat bull. Let him live. Very well. Says Akela.
Look carefully, wolves. Look carefully. The wolves walk near Mowgli and look at him carefully.
Then they go away and only Akela, Baloo, Bagira and Mowgli's wolf family are at the council.
They can hear sheer calm roaring in the night. Men and their cubs are clever. Says Akela.
One day this man cub can help us. Now take him away and teach him everything he must know.
Thanks to Baloo's good words and Bagira's fat bull, Mowgli now belongs to the Cioni wolf pack.
He grows up in the wolf family and he learns the songs of the birds and the sounds of the animals in the jungle.
Baloo and Bagira are very good teachers. He learns to climb trees, swim in the river and hunt for his food.
He is a happy boy.
Chapter 3 Lessons with Baloo
Mowgli is now around 10 years old. Baloo and Bagira love him and they are good teachers.
Baloo likes teaching Mowgli because he is a good student and learns quickly.
First he teaches him to hunt only when he is hungry and not for fun.
Then he teaches him to speak to the different jungle people and he teaches him the important
master words. Sometimes Mowgli gets tired of these lessons.
One day he is not listening to his lesson and Baloo gets angry.
He hits Mowgli gently on the head and the little boy runs away and climbs a tree.
Baloo, don't hit little Mowgli, says Bagira. He is young. How can his little head remember all those long words?
Those long words keep him safe from all the birds, snakes and other animals in the jungle.
Says Baloo.
I know he is young but the jungle is big and not always safe. There are dangers everywhere.
Then he turns around and calls Mowgli. Mowgli, come and say the master words again.
Mowgli climbs down the tree and goes to sit with Baloo and Bagira.
I am going to say the words to Bagira, not to you, old Baloo.
Says Mowgli. I know all the words.
All right.
Says Baloo.
Say the words for the hunting people.
We are of one blood, you and I.
Says Mowgli.
Good. Now say the words for the birds.
Says Baloo. Mowgli says the same words but with the sound of a bird.
And now for the snake people.
Says Baloo.
Mowgli says the same words but with the long sound of a snake.
Very good.
Says Baloo happily.
With these words you are safe in the jungle because no bird, snake or animal can hurt you.
Now I want to go up in the trees with my people.
Says Mowgli happily.
What?
Says Baloo.
Do you know the monkey people?
Suddenly Baloo and Bagira are angry.
Yes, I know the monkey people.
Says Mowgli.
They take me up in the trees and give me good things to eat.
They're kind to me and call me brother.
They play all day and don't do lessons.
I like playing with them.
Oh no.
Says Baloo angrily.
You know the law for all of the jungle people but the monkey people don't have a law.
They don't have a leader.
They're dirty and noisy.
They talk all day and forget everything they say.
The jungle people don't drink where the monkeys drink.
We don't talk to them or think about them.
Forget the monkey people, Mowgli.
Says Bagira.
They live in the trees and they throw nuts on our heads.
Oh.
Says Mowgli sadly.
I'm very sorry.
All this time the monkey people are sitting in the trees
and they are listening to Baloo, Bagira and Mowgli.
Suddenly they throw a lot of nuts and sticks on their heads.
Baloo and Bagira take Mowgli away to another part of the jungle and they take a nap.
Listening activity.
First we are going to find some nuts for breakfast.
Then you are going to learn all the master words.
After we are going to get some bananas from the trees
and I'm going to find some honey for us to eat.
Bagira is going to find his own lunch.
After lunch Bagira and I are going to sleep.
Then in the afternoon you are going to hunt with Bagira.
Chapter 4. Car.
When Baloo and Bagira wake up after their nap, they can't find Mowgli.
Where's Mowgli?
Asks Bagira.
Baloo looks up at a tree and sees Mowgli.
The monkey people are holding his legs and arms.
Baloo shouts angrily and Bagira tries to climb up the tree.
But he is too heavy for the small branches.
The monkeys laugh loudly and carry Mowgli away.
Baloo and Bagira are very angry and worried.
They follow the monkeys and Mowgli but the monkeys move very quickly.
It is exciting for Mowgli to fly in the sky.
The monkeys jump quickly from tree to tree.
But Mowgli is afraid of falling.
Where are the monkeys taking me?
He thinks.
I must tell Baloo and Bagira.
But how?
Suddenly he sees Ran.
He is a big bird and he flies high in the blue sky.
Ran sees the monkeys with a man-cup.
He flies down and hears the master words of the birds.
We are of one blood, you and I.
You speak our language.
Says Ran.
Who are you?
I'm Mowgli, the man-cup.
Please help me.
Find Baloo and Bagira and tell them about the birds.
And tell them about the monkeys.
All right.
Says Ran.
I can do that.
And he flies away.
The monkeys move quickly and soon Baloo and Bagira are far behind.
We're too slow.
Says Baloo.
We can't follow the monkeys.
Poor Mowgli.
He is in danger.
Says Bagira.
Oh, this is terrible.
His big green eyes are sad.
I have an idea.
Where's Carr, the giant python?
He climbs up trees quickly and easily.
And he eats monkeys.
Perhaps he can help us.
Our clever idea, Bagira.
Says Baloo.
Let's look for him.
They find Carr lying in the sun.
He is a beautiful yellow and brown snake.
And he is 10 meters long.
He is very strong and very dangerous.
Hello.
Says Carr when he sees them.
Hello, Carr.
Says Baloo.
We're looking for food.
Oh, I'm very hungry.
Says Carr.
Let me come with you.
We're following the monkey people.
Says Baloo.
They have our man cub and we want to find him.
Why are you following the monkey people?
Asks Carr.
They took our man cub and we're angry.
Says Baloo.
We must find him now.
Says Bagira.
Carr looks interested and says,
your man cub?
Yes.
Says Baloo.
Our man cub, Mowgli.
Bagira is very clever and says,
the monkey people always call you bad names.
They say you're an old young man.
They say you're an old yellow worm.
Says Carr angrily.
Those noisy dirty monkeys must not call me bad names.
Where are they?
And where is your man cub?
Suddenly they hear a voice from the sky.
Look up Baloo.
Shouts ran.
Hello, Ran.
Shouts Baloo.
Mowgli's with the monkey people.
Cries Ran.
He's in the monkey city.
The lost city.
Mowgli's clever.
He knows the master words.
Good luck.
The lost city?
Says Bagira.
Surprised.
It's a very old city.
And no one lives there.
Yes.
Says Baloo.
Only the monkey people go there.
We must leave immediately because it's far away.
You move quickly, but I'm slow.
I can follow you.
Yes.
Let's go.
Says Carr.
I'm very hungry.
Those noisy monkeys can't call me an old yellow worm.
I'm going to teach them something.
Listening activity.
One.
What can you do, Ran?
I can fly high in the sky.
And I can sing to everyone below.
Two.
What can you do, Bagira?
I'm a clever and silent hunter.
I can jump long distances.
Three.
What can you do, Carr?
I can dance.
All the animals that see me dance.
Want to walk towards me and fall into my mouth.
Incredible.
Four.
What can you do, shear Carr?
Everyone is scared of me.
Men can't escape me because I can run very fast.
And I can swim well too.
Five.
What can you do, Baloo?
I can speak all the languages of the other animals in the jungle.
Chapter Five.
The Lost City.
Everything in the Lost City is very old.
There is a big palace on a hill and a water fountain near the King's Garden.
The houses don't have any roofs and trees are growing inside them.
The monkey people call this place their city and run around everywhere.
Some monkeys play with the oranges and flowers in the King's Garden.
And then they fight and shout.
Others jump up and down and say silly things.
The monkey people are happy because Mowgli is with them.
This boy can teach us how to make things.
Says one monkey.
Yes, men make things with their hands.
Says another monkey.
But monkeys always forget the things they say.
Mowgli is tired and hungry and says.
Bring me some food.
About 30 noisy monkeys go to get some fruit.
But they start fighting and forget to bring the fruit to Mowgli.
Mowgli doesn't like the monkeys or the Lost City.
Baloo's right, he thinks.
The monkey people have no law.
They are different from us.
I must try to run away.
Baloo and Beguira are probably angry with me.
Mowgli tries to run to the walls of the Lost City.
But the monkeys pull him back.
You mustn't go away.
They shout.
You're happy here with us.
We're great.
We're wonderful.
We all say this and it's true.
Mowgli is tired and confused.
When do these monkeys sleep?
He thinks.
He looks up at the sky and sees a big cloud near the moon.
Perhaps that cloud is going to hide the moon and I can run away when it's dark.
Beguira and Carr are also watching the same cloud.
They are outside the walls of the Lost City.
We must be careful.
Says Beguira.
There are only two of us and there are hundreds of monkeys.
They are near the walls and they're talking to Mowgli.
When the cloud hides the moon, I'm going to attack them.
Good idea!
Says Carr.
I'm going to go up the hill and then I'm going to come down fast.
Beguira enters the city walls silently and attacks the monkeys.
He hits them with his strong black paws.
The monkeys are scared and scream.
But one of them shouts.
Beguira is alone.
Kill him! Kill him!
Suddenly hundreds of monkeys jump on Beguira and hit, kick and bite him.
Beguira fights bravely but he is alone.
Other monkeys take Mowgli to an old broken building.
They throw him into a dark room with one small window.
Stay here with the poison people until we kill your friend Beguira.
Says one monkey.
Then we can play.
In the dark room Mowgli can hear the hissing sounds of the poison people.
This room is full of snakes.
He thinks, I must give the snakes call.
We are all one blood, you and I.
He says giving the snakes call.
The snakes answer.
snake's answer. We're not going to bite you. But please don't don't move because your feet
hurt us. All right, says Mowgli, listening to the noise of the fight outside. But Gira's
fighting for his life. Thanks Mowgli. How can I help him? He remembers the big water fountain
near the king's garden. He goes to the small window and shouts,
but Gira go to the water fountain and jump into the water.
But Gira hears him and thinks, oh good, Mowgli is safe. He slowly goes to the water fountain.
Finally, Baloo arrives and shouts,
Gira, I'm here. The monkeys jump on Baloo and he hits them with his big strong arms.
Mowgli hears a loud splash when Baloo jumps into the water fountain. The monkeys are afraid
of water and they stand around the fountain.
Baloo cannot get out to help Baloo.
Listening activity.
Hello. I'd like some information about your jungle adventure tour to the lost city of Ascan.
Oh yes, of course. There is a trip every week. The next trip leaves on the 10th of July.
That's next Thursday.
Good. We're here for another week. So that's perfect. At what time does the tour leave?
It leaves at half past eight in the morning. The minibus leaves from the tourist information office.
Do you know where that is?
Yes. It's in the square.
Yes. That's right. Do you want me to include you in the tour group?
Yes. It's myself and three other people. So there are four of us.
That's fine. I just need one name to make a reservation.
You can have my name. It's Deborah Thompson.
How do you spell that?
Deborah is D, E, B, O, R, A, H. And Thompson is T, H, O, M, P, S, O, N.
Thank you, Deborah.
It's $20 each, right?
Yes. That's right. The price is $20 per person and that includes the bus, lunch at the lost city and a tour guide.
Thank you.
Let's meet some of the animals in the story.
Tigers.
There are five kinds of tigers in the world. The Siberian, the Bengal, the Indo-Chinese, the South Chinese and the Sumatran.
Tigers are big, strong animals and they live in Asia.
They are carnivorous and they hunt alone at night because they have excellent night vision.
They are also good swimmers.
There are only about 7,000 tigers in the world today.
They are in danger of extinction and this is very sad.
People hunt them for their beautiful coats and this is against the law.
Many countries are trying to save tigers.
Bears.
There are different kinds of bears in the world, the black bear, the grizzly, the Kodiak, the Alaskan brown bear
and the polar bear.
Bears are very big and heavy and have a lot of fur.
They are strong, lively animals.
They live in the forests and mountains of North America, Asia and Europe.
But polar bears live in the Arctic Circle.
They are carnivorous animals but they also like fish, fruit and honey.
Indian Pythons.
Indian Pythons are from the family of snakes.
They are very big, long snakes and live in the jungles of India.
They like living near water.
They kill animals by squeezing them.
They don't chew their food, they swallow their prey.
Indian Pythons can even eat big animals like deer.
After a big meal, they don't eat for days or weeks.
Pythons are in danger of extinction too.
People hunt them for their beautiful skin and use it to make bags, shoes and belts.
In some countries, this is against the law.
Black Panthers.
Black Panthers are really black leopards.
Their coat is very dark, so you cannot see its spots.
Black Panthers live in Asia, Africa and the Far East.
They are carnivorous and they live in forests and jungles.
They like climbing up trees and sitting there.
They are strong, clever animals and they hunt at night.
Wolves.
Wolves are social animals.
They live and hunt together in a pack.
Each pack has a leader and the other wolves must follow him.
There are grey, brown, black, red and white wolves.
They communicate with different sounds.
They howl, bark and growl.
Wolves live in the forests and mountains of Alaska, the United States, Northern Europe and Russia.
They are in danger of extinction too.
There are only about 150,000 wolves in the world today.
Many of them live in national parks in the United States.
Many countries have laws that protect wolves.
6. Cars Dance.
Suddenly, car comes down the hill fast and he is ready to attack the monkeys.
They all know that car can kill any animal and they are afraid of him.
When they see him, they shout.
It's car! Run! Run!
Then car opens his mouth and speaks one hissing word.
The monkeys are suddenly quiet and everything in the lost city is silent.
Beguira gets out of the fountain.
Let's take Mowgli and go.
He says.
Thank you car.
Yes. Thank you car.
Says Baloo.
You're great.
Look at the monkeys. They're terrified.
I'm happy to help.
Says car.
Where's the man cub?
I'm here with the snakes.
Cries Mowgli.
I can't get out.
Take him away.
Shout the snakes.
He jumps around and hurts us with his feet.
The man cub has friends everywhere.
Says car.
He hits the wall with his heavy body three times and makes a hole in it.
Mowgli jumps out and runs to Baloo and Beguira.
Thank you for helping me.
Says Mowgli, smiling.
You must thank car.
Say Baloo and Beguira.
Mowgli looks at the great python.
He looks a bit like a monkey.
Says car.
We're of one blood. You and I.
Says Mowgli.
I'm your friend and I can always help you.
You're brave and you speak well.
Says car.
Now you must go with your friends.
Car moves softly in front of the sitting monkeys and begins his dance.
The hunger dance.
His head moves slowly from right to left.
His long body makes circles, squares and other shapes.
He dances slowly and never stops.
The monkeys are terrified, but they cannot move.
Baloo and Beguira look at car and cannot move.
Mowgli cannot understand what is happening.
Monkeys!
Cries car.
Can you move?
No car.
They answer loudly.
Without your word, we cannot move.
Come close to me, monkeys.
Says car in his low voice.
Come very close.
The monkeys move close to car and Baloo and Beguira move close too.
Mowgli is worried and he pulls Baloo and Beguira away.
Oh, thank you, Mowgli.
Whisper's Beguira.
What's happening?
Asks Mowgli.
Your eyes are closing.
Are you feeling well?
A python's dance is magic.
Whisper's Beguira.
It's very dangerous to watch, even for us.
Because it's easy to walk into his mouth.
Oh!
Says Mowgli, surprised.
The monkeys are moving close to car.
Car is going to have a big dinner tonight with all of those monkeys.
Whisper's Beguira.
Let's go back to the jungle quickly.
Baloo, Beguira and Mowgli leave the lost city.
They go back to the jungle.
And now, Mowgli?
Says Beguira.
We must follow the law of the jungle.
We must punish you for talking to the monkeys.
You're right, says Mowgli.
I'm a bad man cub.
He looks at Baloo sadly.
We're sorry, but we cannot go against the law of the jungle.
Says Baloo.
You must learn, Mowgli.
Says Beguira.
Beguira hits him softly with his big paw six times.
But Mowgli does not cry.
You're a brave man cub.
Says Baloo.
Now, Beguira says,
A jump on my back, little brother,
and always remember to follow the law of the jungle.
It's a good law and it keeps you safe.
Let's go home.
Yes, says Mowgli.
I want to go home.
He soon falls asleep on Beguira's back.
Chapter 7, The Red Flower.
All of the jungle people are Mowgli's friends, but not Sheer Khan.
Beguira tells Mowgli.
Be careful of Sheer Khan.
He wants to kill you.
A Kayla likes you, but he's old now.
He's not strong.
The young wolves don't listen to him.
They listen to Sheer Khan.
One day, you must kill him.
I'm not afraid.
Says Mowgli, laughing.
I have you and Baloo.
Mowgli, you must listen to me.
Says Beguira softly.
Remember, you're a man cub, not a wolf cub.
You belong to the world of men.
They're your brothers.
One day, you must return to that world.
You're clever, and you can do a lot of things we can't do.
Because you're a man.
Yes, Mowgli.
Says Baloo.
Sheer Khan's making trouble for you.
The young wolves want to kill you.
But why?
Asks Mowgli.
Look at me.
Says Beguira.
Mowgli looks him in the eyes, but Beguira turns his head away quickly.
That's why.
He says.
You see, Mowgli.
Even I can't look into your eyes.
You're a man.
You're clever.
The young wolves know this, and they hate you.
Mowgli listens to Beguira and Baloo quietly.
You must go to the men's village and take some of their red flower.
Says Beguira.
All of the animals are afraid of it.
It's a strong friend, and it can help you.
The red flower is fire, but the animals do not call it by its name.
Very well, says Mowgli.
I'm going to the men's village to get the red flower now.
In the village, he sees a young boy cover a fire pot with a cloth.
Mowgli takes the pot from the boy and runs back to the jungle.
That evening, the jackal, tobaccoe, goes to see Mowgli and says.
There's a meeting at Council Rock tomorrow morning.
When Mowgli gets to Council Rock, a tailor is not sitting on top of the big rock.
He is sitting next to it.
Sheer Khan is there too, and all of the young wolves are sitting around him.
Mowgli sits next to Beguira with the fire pot between his legs.
Sheer Khan starts speaking, and Mowgli jumps up.
Is Sheer Khan your leader?
asks Mowgli.
Does he belong to the wolf pack?
A tailor's old now.
He's not important.
Says Sheer Khan.
Listen to me.
A man cub doesn't belong to a wolf pack.
Give him to me.
A man!
Cry the young wolves.
A man doesn't belong to our wolf pack.
A tailor is angry and says Mowgli is our brother.
He respects the law of the jungle.
Let him go away safely.
But he's a man.
Cry Sheer Khan and some of the wolves.
Mowgli is very angry.
He stands up with the fire pot in his hands.
He takes a piece of wood and puts it in the fire.
It starts burning.
The wolves and the tiger are afraid of the fire and move away from Mowgli.
You're the leader now.
Says Beguira.
Help your friend Akayla.
I want to go to my people.
Says Mowgli.
But first he goes to Sheer Khan and says,
You want to kill me, but now you're afraid of me.
He hits Sheer Khan on the head with his burning stick and burns it a bit.
The tiger is terrified.
Go away now.
Says Mowgli.
But remember, I'm going to kill you one day and you must not kill my friend Akayla.
He is free to live in the jungle.
Mowgli jumps at the young wolves with his burning stick.
They are terrified and run away with Sheer Khan.
Only Akayla, Beguira and some old wolves stay at Council Rock.
Suddenly, something inside Mowgli hurts and he starts crying.
What's happening to me?
He asks Beguira.
Am I dying?
You're a man and these are tears.
Says Beguira.
They're only tears.
Now you must go to your people.
You can't stay in the jungle anymore, my little brother.
Yes, I must go to the world of men.
Says Mowgli.
But first, I want to say goodbye to my mother and father.
He goes to the cave and cries on his mother's coat.
Please don't forget me.
Says Mowgli.
Crying.
Forget you, says Mother Wolf.
Never.
We love you.
Come and visit us often.
Says Father Wolf.
Your mother and I are getting old.
When I come to visit, I'm going to bring Sheer Khan's coat.
Says Mowgli.
The next morning, he goes down the hill to the world of men.
Chapter 8.
Tiger, Tiger.
I have a lot of enemies now.
Mowgli thinks.
I must go far away.
He runs and runs until he comes to a village near a lot of rocks and ravines.
He sees cows and buffaloes everywhere.
Some boys are looking after them.
When they see Mowgli, they run away.
Men here are afraid of the people of the jungle.
thinks Mowgli.
Mowgli sits near the village gate.
When he sees a man, he opens his mouth to show that he wants some food.
The man is surprised and runs to the village shouting.
He comes back with about a hundred people.
Everyone looks at Mowgli.
Look.
He has the bite marks of wolves on his arms and legs.
Says one man.
He's a wolf child.
He comes from the jungle.
These men don't understand.
Think, Mowgli.
I don't have bite marks.
I have play marks.
Wolf cubs always bite lightly when they play.
He's a good looking boy.
Says one woman.
But he's thin.
He must eat poor boy.
Says Masua, another woman.
He can come home with me.
Masua takes Mowgli to her house and gives him some bread and milk.
She is kind to him.
This is my first time in a house and I don't like it.
Think, Mowgli.
But I'm a man now and I must do what men do.
I know the languages of the jungle and now I must learn the language of men.
That day, Mowgli learns a lot of words from Masua.
But at night, he does not want to sleep inside a house.
He climbs out of a small window and goes to sleep under a big tree near the village.
He meets Grey Brother, a wolf cub.
Hello little brother.
Says Grey Brother.
I have news for you.
Shere Khan's in the mountains now.
But he wants to kill you when he comes back.
Please come to the big tree and tell me when Shere Khan comes back.
Says Mowgli.
Yes little brother.
Says Grey Brother.
And don't forget your wolf family.
I can't forget the family I love.
Says Mowgli smiling.
For three months, Mowgli lives in the village.
He learns to wear clothes, use money and work.
Every day, he looks after cows and buffaloes.
One day, Mowgli sees Grey Brother at the big tree.
Shere Khan is back.
Says Grey Brother.
He wants to meet you outside the village gate tonight.
But now he's hiding in the big ravine.
Thank you, Grey Brother.
Says Mowgli.
He thinks for a moment.
Then he looks at Grey Brother and says...
The big ravine.
I can take the buffaloes to the top and run after Shere Khan down the ravine.
The cows can stay at the bottom of the ravine.
In this way, he's between the buffaloes and the cows.
And he can't run away.
You're right.
Says Grey Brother excitedly.
Can you help me?
Asks Mowgli.
A tailor and I can help you.
Says Grey Brother.
And A tailor comes out from the trees.
A tailor!
Cries Mowgli happily.
You're a true friend.
Take the cows to the bottom of the ravine, Grey Brother.
Says Mowgli.
A tailor and I are going to take the buffaloes to the top.
When Mowgli is ready, he shouts...
Shere Khan!
It's me!
Mowgli!
Are you ready?
Mowgli gets on Rama, one of the buffaloes.
And they all start running down the ravine.
Shere Khan is sleeping.
And he wakes up slowly when he hears the noise.
The buffaloes are running towards him.
He starts running down the ravine, but he is heavy with food.
At the bottom of the ravine, he meets the cows.
He falls under the feet of the buffaloes, and they run over him.
Mowgli jumps off Rama's back, runs towards the tiger and shouts...
Shere Khan's dead!
He's dead!
He takes his knife and starts cutting the coat from Shere Khan's body.
It is hard work.
The village hunter, Baldeo, sees Shere Khan's coat and thinks...
I want that tiger coat.
He goes to talk to Mowgli.
Go, and look after your cows.
He says...
The tiger coat is mine.
I'm the village hunter.
I can sell it for a lot of money.
No!
Cries Mowgli.
Don't touch this coat!
Listen, boy!
Says Baldeo.
Suddenly, a cayler jumps on him, and he is on the ground with a big grey wolf on top of him.
Now, go back to the village, Baldeo.
Says Mowgli.
Baldeo is afraid and goes away.
That evening, Mowgli goes back to the village and sees the people at the gate.
Go away, wolf child!
Jungle boy!
They shout...
We don't want you here!
They start throwing stones at him.
Mowgli doesn't understand.
Shere Khan kills their cows and takes their children.
He thinks...
But the people of the village are angry with me.
They're like the bad young wolves of the pack.
He looks at the stars in the night sky and says...
I don't want to sleep in houses anymore.
He turns to a cayler and says...
Let's take Shere Khan's coat and go away.
Mowgli and the two wolves go to Mother Wolf's cave.
The people of the village don't want me, Mother.
Says Mowgli.
This is my home.
I want to stay here.
And this is Shere Khan's coat.
Mother Wolf is very happy.
Beguira comes to the cave and says...
We're happy to see you, little brother.
Mowgli takes Shere Khan's coat and puts it on council rock.
A cayler sits on it and says...
Look carefully, wolves.
Shere Khan is dead.
Now I don't belong to the wolf pack or to the man pack.
Says Mowgli.
But I can hunt alone in the jungle.
We can hunt with you.
Say, grey brother and the other cubs.
Mowgli returns to the jungle and lives and hunts with his brothers.